Platform deployment plans (#373)
hirosystems/docs: docs/platform/deployment-plans.md

---
title: Deployment Plans
---

# Deployment Plans

Deployment plans are a collection of transactions to publish one or more contracts to a network (testnet or mainnet). This article walks you through deploying your contracts using deployment plans in the [Hiro Platform](https://platform.hiro.so/).

> To learn more about Deployment plans, refer to [Customize deployment](https://docs.hiro.so/clarinet/how-to-guides/how-to-use-deployment-plans#deployment-plans).

Reviewer: Agreed! @LakshmiLavanyaKasturi: Let's point to the Clarinet docs re: deployment plans, please.

## Generate Deployment Plan

This section helps you generate a deployment plan to deploy your contracts.

First, sign up to the [Hiro Platform](https://platform.hiro.so/) or login to the Platform if you are an existing user with your credentials. Refer to the [getting started](https://docs.hiro.so/platform/getting-started#sign-up-as-a-new-user) guide for guidance.

Then, [create or import a project](https://docs.hiro.so/platform/getting-started#create-or-import-project) to use deployment plans.

To launch the deployment plans pane, select the **deploy** button on the top right corner of the page.

![Deploy button](images/deployment-plans-deploy-button.jpeg)

This brings up the deployment plans pane, where you can select the network to deploy the contracts using deployment plans. `Generate for Testnet` or `Generate for Mainnet.`

![Deployment plans pane](images/generate-deployment-plans.jpeg)

## Deploy

> In this section, you will learn how to deploy your contracts using the created deployment plans.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, you will learn how to deploy your contracts using the generated deployment plans.
```

- Select `Generate for Testnet` to deploy your contracts to the Testnet.
- Next, select **deploy** to deploy your deployment plan with contracts to testnet.
![Deployment plan with status in-mempool](images/deployment-plan-in-mempool.jpeg)

- You will connect the wallet to the application and select `Confirm` to confirm the deployment.
![Connect wallet](images/deployment-plan-connect-wallet.jpeg)

:::note

The deployment process may take a while based on the number of contracts you deploy using deployment plans.

:::

- Now, in your list of contracts, you will see the status of your deployment as `In mempool.`
![Deployment plan with status in-mempool](images/deployment-plan-in-mempool.jpeg)

- Upon successful deployment, the status changes to `Deployed.`
![Deployment plan with status deployed](images/deployment-plans-status-deployed.jpeg)

-  `Failed,` reflecting that there might be some error in the deployment process. You can view the transaction in [Explorer](https://explorer.hiro.so/) by selecting the pop-out arrow beside the contract.
![Deployment failed](images/deployment-plans-failed.jpeg)

> If you choose to deploy a contract to either of the networks using the **Deploy** button beside each of the contracts, you will be prompted to confirm if you want to deploy outside of your deployment plan. Then, you can choose between deploying the contract vs. using a deployment plan.

Reviewer 2: Suggestions for clarity, either:
- "If you choose to deploy a _standalone_ contract..."
- "If you choose to deploy an _individual_ contract..."

![Confirmation to deploy outside of deployment plan](images/confirmation-to-delpoy-outside-of-deployment-plan.jpeg)

## Regenerate Plan

> Regenerate plan is helpful when you have changes in your contracts and you wish to create a new deployment plan. The following are a few instances where you will use regenerate deployment plan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regenerate plan is helpful when you have changes in your contracts and you wish to create a new deployment plan. The following are a few instances where you can regenerate deployment plan.
```

Reviewer: nit: The way how this statement starts is a bit unclear to me. I understand we are using "Regenerate Plan" to mimic the button label, but it can be rephrased differently.

### New contract is added

If you want to create a new contract, refer to this [link](https://docs.hiro.so/clarinet/how-to-guides/how-to-add-contract). You can also use the "Open Editor" button to open Visual Studio code to add or update a contract.

:::note

> If you add a new contract through Editor, ensure the new contract is configured to the `clarinet.toml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you add a new contract through Editor, ensure the new contract is configured to the `Clarinet.toml` file.
```

I think this should be capital C.
